doc/aws/aws-env.md, before:

aws-env: Wrapper for AWS temporary sessions using MFA and roles
===============================================================

Copyright (c) 2017 FP Complete Corp.  
Author and maintainer: Emanuel Borsboom <manny@fpcomplete.com>

This aims to be the "ultimate" AWS temporary session wrapper.  Highlights:

  - Supports both MFA and assuming roles
  - Caches credentials so you can share between shell sessions and don't get
    prompted for MFA codes unnecessarily
  - Can be used either as a wrapper or `eval`ed
  - Bash prompt integration: add profile to prompt in `eval` mode
  - Uses the same configuration files as the AWS CLI, with some extensions
  - Supports directory context-sensitive configuration in `aws-env.config`
  - Only non-standard dependency is the AWS CLI

Limitations

  - Only tested with `bash`.

Installation
------------

### Requirements

You must have the AWS CLI installed. See the [AWS CLI installation
guide](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html).

### Download and install

To install the latest version, download [the
script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fpco/devops-helpers/master/aws/aws-env.sh)
and put it somewhere on your PATH with execute bits, preferably named `aws-env`.
For example:

    wget -O aws-env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fpco/devops-helpers/master/aws/aws-env.sh
    chmod a+x aws-env
    sudo mv aws-env /usr/local/bin/aws-env

Usage
-----

    aws-env \
        [--profile=NAME|-p NAME] \
        [--help] \
        [--] \
        [COMMAND [ARGS ...]]

### Options

`--profile NAME`: Set the AWS CLI profile to use. If not specified, uses the
    value of AWS_DEFAULT_PROFILE or `default` if that is not set. Note that this
    will completely override any role_arn, mfa_serial, region, and
    source_profile set in the `aws-env.config`.

`--help`: Display this help text and exit.

### Arguments

When given a COMMAND, executes the command in the context of the temporary
session. For example:

    aws-env -p admin terraform plan

Without a COMMAND, prints commands that set environment variables to stdout,
suitable for evaluating by the shell. For example:

    eval $(aws-env -p admin)

Bash integration
----------------

By default, `eval $(aws-env)` will add the current profile name to the bash
prompt (`$PS1`). The prompt format can be overridden in `.aws-env.config`.

Configuration
-------------

aws-env gets configuration from two places:

  - The AWS CLI configuration files, by default `~/.aws/config` and `~/.aws/credentials`.
  - Its own `aws-env.config` and `.aws-env.config`

### AWS CLI configuration file.

`~/.aws/credentials` must contain the initial credentials for connecting to AWS.
For example:

    [signin]
    aws_access_key_id=AKIA................
    aws_secret_access_key=BC/u....................................

`~/.aws/config` contains the MFA device ARN, role ARN and source
profile. For example:

    [profile admin]
    role_arn=arn:aws:iam::123456789000:role/admin
    mfa_serial=arn:aws:iam::987654321000:mfa/username
    source_profile=signin

See
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html
and http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-roles.html for more
details.

Some extensions are supported that the AWS CLI does not support:

  - Any profile, even those without a `role_arn`, may specify an `mfa_serial`.
    That means that even if you don't use roles, aws-env can still prompt you
    for an MFA code and set temporary credentials (unlike the AWS CLI). For
    example (in `~/.aws/config`)

        [profile signin]
        mfa_serial=arn:aws:iam::987654321000:mfa/username

  - aws-env will use the `mfa_serial` and `region` from the `source_profile`, so
    you don't need to repeat it in every role profile.

### aws-env configuration

The optional aws-env configuration files are read from the following locations,
in order, with values in that come earlier overriding those that come later.

  - Current directory's `.aws-env.config`
  - Current directory's `aws-env.config`
  - Recursively in the parent directories' `.aws-env.config` and
    `aws-env.config`s, until (and not including) $HOME or the root.
  - `$HOME/.aws-env.config`

Here's an annotated example (all fields are optional, and defaults or values
from the AWS CLI configuration will be used for any ommitted values):

    # The default AWS region.
    region=us-west-2

    # Profile name. Note that this profile does not need to exist in the AWS CLI
    # configuration if a source_profile is set, but it is displayed to the user
    # and in the prompt.
    profile=admin

    # The AWS CLI profile to use when creating the temporary session.
    source_profile=signin

    # The ARN of the role to assume.
    role_arn=arn:aws:iam::123456789000:role/admin

    # How long until the MFA session expires. This defaults to the maximum
    # 129600 (36 hours).
    mfa_duration_seconds=43200

    # How long until the role session expires. This defaults to the maximum 3600
    # (1 hour).
    role_duration_seconds=1800

    # Percentage of MFA token duration at which to refresh it. The default is to
    # request a new token after 65% of the old token's duration has passed.
    mfa_refresh_factor=50

    # Percentage of role token duration at which to refresh it. The default is
    # to request a new token after 35% of the old token's duration has passed.
    role_refresh_factor=10

    # The 'printf' format for the profile in the bash prompt. This can include
    # terminal escape sequences to change the colour.  Defaults to '[%s]'
    prompt_format=\[\033[1;31m\](%s)\[\033[0m\]

A typical way to use this is to put an `aws-env.config` in the root of your
project that specifies the `role_arn` to assume when working on that project the
`source_profile` that has the credentials and MFA device, and commit that to the
repository. As long as all users of the project have a consistent name for the
credentials `source_profile`, they can just prefix any AWS-using command with
`aws-env` and be sure it's run in the correct context. Users can add or override
configuration locally using `.aws-env.config` (note: has a dot at the
beginning). It can also be nice to specify a `profile` which does not actually
have to exist, but means that will be displayed in the bash prompt. Example:

    region=us-west-2
    profile=admin
    source_profile=signin
    role_arn=arn:aws:iam::123456789000:role/admin

Environment variables
---------------------

### The following environment variables are read by aws-env:

`AWS_DEFAULT_PROFILE`: AWS CLI profile to use. Defaults to `default`.
`default` is used.

`AWS_CONFIG_FILE`: Location of the AWS CLI config file. Defaults to
`~/.aws/config`.

`AWS_ENV_CACHE_DIR`: Location of cached credentials. Defaults to
`~/.aws-env/`

### The following standard AWS environment variables are **set** by aws-env:

- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
- `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`
- `AWS_SECURITY_TOKEN`
- `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`

In addition, `AWS_ENV_CURRENT_PROFILE` is set to the name of the current
profile.

When used in `eval` mode, `PS1` is also be prefixed so that the bash prompt
shows the current profile.

File locations
--------------

By default, temporary credentials are stored in `~/.aws-env/`, AWS CLI
configuration is read from `~/.aws/config`, and aws-env configuration is read
from `~/.aws-env.config`.

Commit message:

Allow operation without config files
Use AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID and AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY if set, and
specify MFA serial/role ARN on command-line or via environment
variables.

doc/aws/aws-env.md, after:

aws-env: Wrapper for AWS temporary sessions using MFA and roles
===============================================================

Copyright (c) 2017 FP Complete Corp.  
Author and maintainer: Emanuel Borsboom <manny@fpcomplete.com>

This aims to be the "ultimate" AWS temporary session wrapper.  Highlights:

  - Supports both MFA and assuming roles
  - Caches credentials so you can share between shell sessions and don't get
    prompted for MFA codes unnecessarily
  - Can be used either as a wrapper or `eval`ed
  - Bash prompt integration: add profile to prompt in `eval` mode
  - Uses the same configuration files as the AWS CLI, with some extensions
  - Supports directory context-sensitive configuration in `aws-env.config`
  - Only non-standard dependency is the AWS CLI

Limitations

  - Only tested with `bash`.

Installation
------------

### Requirements

You must have the AWS CLI installed. See the [AWS CLI installation
guide](http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/installing.html).

### Download and install

To install the latest version, download [the
script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fpco/devops-helpers/master/aws/aws-env.sh)
and put it somewhere on your PATH with execute bits, preferably named `aws-env`.
For example:

    wget -O aws-env https://raw.githubusercontent.com/fpco/devops-helpers/master/aws/aws-env.sh
    chmod a+x aws-env
    sudo mv aws-env /usr/local/bin/aws-env

Usage
-----

    aws-env \
        [--profile=NAME|-p NAME] \
        [--mfa-serial=ARN|-m ARN] \
        [--role-arn=ARN|-r ARN] \
        [--help] \
        [--] \
        [COMMAND [ARGS ...]]

### Options

`--profile NAME`: Set the AWS CLI profile to use. If not specified, uses the
    value of AWS_DEFAULT_PROFILE or `default` if that is not set. Note that this
    will completely override any role_arn, mfa_serial, region, and
    source_profile set in the `aws-env.config`.

`--mfa-serial ARN`: Override or set the MFA device ARN.

`--role-arn ARN`: Override or set the ARN for the role to assume.

`--help`: Display this help text and exit.

### Arguments

When given a COMMAND, executes the command in the context of the temporary
session. For example:

    aws-env -p admin terraform plan

Without a COMMAND, prints commands that set environment variables to stdout,
suitable for evaluating by the shell. For example:

    eval $(aws-env -p admin)

Bash integration
----------------

By default, `eval $(aws-env)` will add the current profile name to the bash
prompt (`$PS1`). The prompt format can be overridden in `.aws-env.config`.

Configuration Files
-------------------

aws-env gets configuration from two places (in addition to environment variables):

  - The AWS CLI configuration files, by default `~/.aws/config` and `~/.aws/credentials`.
  - Its own `aws-env.config` and `.aws-env.config`

### AWS CLI configuration file.

`~/.aws/credentials` must contain the initial credentials for connecting to AWS.
For example:

    [signin]
    aws_access_key_id=AKIA................
    aws_secret_access_key=BC/u....................................

`~/.aws/config` contains the MFA device ARN, role ARN and source
profile. For example:

    [profile admin]
    role_arn=arn:aws:iam::123456789000:role/admin
    mfa_serial=arn:aws:iam::987654321000:mfa/username
    source_profile=signin

See
http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-chap-getting-started.html
and http://docs.aws.amazon.com/cli/latest/userguide/cli-roles.html for more
details.

Some extensions are supported that the AWS CLI does not support:

  - Any profile, even those without a `role_arn`, may specify an `mfa_serial`.
    That means that even if you don't use roles, aws-env can still prompt you
    for an MFA code and set temporary credentials (unlike the AWS CLI). For
    example (in `~/.aws/config`)

        [profile signin]
        mfa_serial=arn:aws:iam::987654321000:mfa/username

  - aws-env will use the `mfa_serial` and `region` from the `source_profile`, so
    you don't need to repeat it in every role profile.

Note: the AWS CLI configuration file is ignored if the `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
environment variable is set.

### aws-env configuration

The optional aws-env configuration files are read from the following locations,
in order, with values in that come earlier overriding those that come later.

  - Current directory's `.aws-env.config`
  - Current directory's `aws-env.config`
  - Recursively in the parent directories' `.aws-env.config` and
    `aws-env.config`s, until (and not including) $HOME or the root.
  - `$HOME/.aws-env.config`

Here's an annotated example (all fields are optional, and defaults or values
from the AWS CLI configuration will be used for any ommitted values):

    # The default AWS region.
    region=us-west-2

    # Profile name. Note that this profile does not need to exist in the AWS CLI
    # configuration if a source_profile is set, but it is displayed to the user
    # and in the prompt.
    profile=admin

    # The AWS CLI profile to use when creating the temporary session.
    source_profile=signin

    # The ARN of the role to assume.
    role_arn=arn:aws:iam::123456789000:role/admin

    # How long until the MFA session expires. This defaults to the maximum
    # 129600 (36 hours).
    mfa_duration_seconds=43200

    # How long until the role session expires. This defaults to the maximum 3600
    # (1 hour).
    role_duration_seconds=1800

    # Percentage of MFA token duration at which to refresh it. The default is to
    # request a new token after 65% of the old token's duration has passed.
    mfa_refresh_factor=50

    # Percentage of role token duration at which to refresh it. The default is
    # to request a new token after 35% of the old token's duration has passed.
    role_refresh_factor=10

    # The 'printf' format for the profile in the bash prompt. This can include
    # terminal escape sequences to change the colour.  Defaults to '[%s]'
    prompt_format=\[\033[1;31m\](%s)\[\033[0m\]

A typical way to use this is to put an `aws-env.config` in the root of your
project that specifies the `role_arn` to assume when working on that project the
`source_profile` that has the credentials and MFA device, and commit that to the
repository. As long as all users of the project have a consistent name for the
credentials `source_profile`, they can just prefix any AWS-using command with
`aws-env` and be sure it's run in the correct context. Users can add or override
configuration locally using `.aws-env.config` (note: has a dot at the
beginning). It can also be nice to specify a `profile` which does not actually
have to exist, but means that will be displayed in the bash prompt. Example:

    region=us-west-2
    profile=admin
    source_profile=signin
    role_arn=arn:aws:iam::123456789000:role/admin

Environment variables
---------------------

### The following environment variables are read by aws-env:

`AWS_DEFAULT_PROFILE`: AWS CLI profile to use. Defaults to `default`.
`default` is used.

`AWS_CONFIG_FILE`: Location of the AWS CLI config file. Defaults to
`~/.aws/config`.

`AWS_ENV_CACHE_DIR`: Location of cached credentials. Defaults to
`~/.aws-env/`

`AWS_ENV_DEFAULT_MFA_SERIAL`: Default MFA device ARN to use if not
set in configuration file or on command-line.

`AWS_ENV_DEFAULT_ROLE_ARN`: Default ARN of role to assume if not
set in configuration file or on command-line.

`AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID` and `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`: Default AWS credentials to use
in order to generate temporary credentials. Note that if these are specified,
the AWS configuration files are ignored.

### The following standard AWS environment variables are **set** by aws-env:

- `AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID`
- `AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY`
- `AWS_SESSION_TOKEN`
- `AWS_SECURITY_TOKEN`
- `AWS_DEFAULT_REGION`

In addition, `AWS_ENV_CURRENT_PROFILE` is set to the name of the current
profile.

When used in `eval` mode, `PS1` is also prefixed so that the bash prompt
shows the current profile.

File locations
--------------

By default, temporary credentials are stored in `~/.aws-env/`, AWS CLI
configuration is read from `~/.aws/config`, and aws-env configuration is read
from `~/.aws-env.config`.
